Danny is a 67 yr old man living in Austin Texas. Danny suffers from obesity and diabetes. Danny has recently been to the doctor and was told he is at serious risk of a heart attack. Danny is extra worried because if he would have a heart attack the average response time for an ambulance to come in his city is 10 minutes. Fortunately there are many people trained in CPR near where Danny lives. These good samaritans are ready and available to help patients like Danny. They do this by joining in Emergency App as a first responder. Danny’s daughter Hailey heard about the app that allows patients to call a first responder for help while still calling 911. Hailey downloaded the app on Danny’s phone as well as on her mom’s and her own. Now Danny and his family feel more prepared knowing they have easy access to trained first aid responders as well as 911.

Sarah is a 20 yr old young lady living in Ottawa Ontario. Sarah is studying in her second year of University with hopes to go to med school. Sarah became trained in first aid last year when she worked at summer camp. Sarah would love to be involved in the emergency scene because she really wants to give to her community and it is good hands on experience in preparation for becoming a doctor. Sarah’s friend Natasha told her about an Emergency App she can sign up to be part of to give back and get experience. Sarah signed up for the app putting in her first aid credentials. Once the app verified them she was added to the list of first responders. Now when there are emergencies, Sarah gets a notification on her phone and she can quickly respond and give support while the ambulance is still arriving.

Max is a 45 yr old man living in Vancouver BC. Max read about a new Emergency App that allows patients to call for help by simply pushing a button on an app. Max really wanted to download it because of the time he had a stroke it took 9 minutes for an ambulance to arrive. Max is nervous though because how does he know when he should call 911 after the first responder comes. Max researches the app more and finds out he doesn’t need to worry because the app calls 911 right away. The first responders job is exactly what he is called, a first responder, to be there to help the patient during the long ambulance arrival time.

Janice is a 37 year old psw in New York City. For her job she needs to be trained in first aid. While she was at work an elderly lady down the hall went unconscious, 911 was called and during the over 9 minute wait, Janice began doing cpr and performing medical assistance. At the hospital the elderly lady was told that she was very fortunate that Janice was there to provide help and that she may not have made it without it. The elderly lady’s son went to thank Janice later that day and asked her if she had heard of the Emergency App and if she would be interested in joining. Janice had heard about it but she was nervous to sign up because how would she have any idea what kind of emergency she would be called to attend to. What Janice didn’t realize is that after calling for help the app allows patients to describe the medical emergency and that information is transferred to the first responder so people like Janice can feel prepared for the situation.
